# Polygon Protocol Governance Call: Transcript

### Attendees
Alexandru Minulescu, Derek Meyer, Fireflies.ai Notetaker Parth, Flavian Manea, George Serntedakis, Harry Rook, Kehinde Yusuf, Michel Muniz, Mohak Agarwal, Paul O'Leary, Quentin de Beauchesne, Sandeep Sreenath, Scott Lilliston, Vincent Taglia, Yuling Ma

# Transcript

#### **This editable transcript was computer-generated and might contain errors.**

**Harry Rook:** PIP 11, upgrade is on Mumbai. So we've got a few points to cover on that. But, other than that, the agenda is fairly short so we'll probably wrap up the call a little bit early today.
I have Just linked the agenda in the chat. And the main updates today is on  milestones. We've got Sandeep here, who can give us an overview of the upgrade to Mumbai and there is a date scheduled for the hard fork. So, yeah, we'll get some updates on that and potentially some more hints on when we can expect to see that on mainnet. Sandeep take it away.

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Yeah, Thank you. Can you hear me?
I think we've been discussing PIP 11 for a few months. I think it comes up as a topic in almost every PPGC. So the good news is that finally, the Mumbai hard fork is happening on 12th, which activates the milestones feature,. And yeah, we are all excited about it. I think the communication has gone out to all the validators. So we are closely tracking the percentage of rollout and I think we are already in a good place to validators but hopefully we should have almost all the nodes covered before the Hard Fork
Again, the Milestones feature for those of you who haven't attended the previous calls will be introducing faster deterministic finality in the board chain. And yeah, how we achieve it is by using the heimdall layer for submitting something called milestone which is you could think of my sponsors shorter checkpoints. So essentially checkpoints in the current system we send checkpoints to L1 chain which is ethereum in main network.
So the concept of milestones is very similar, but we are utilizing the fact that Heimdal has, instant finality. And so we are using milestones to checkpoint and send these shorter checkpoints to Heimdall and yeah, that is one of the ways in which, we are able to give finality. Essentially, after every certain number of blocks a handle, the milestone is proposed on the Heimdall, there is consensus among the himdal notes, whether they are seeing the same, root hash of the board chain up to a certain block. And then, if that is the case, then this milestone object is actually, published as a milestone. And we also have taken care of it in the bore client that it doesn't your beyond a milestone, right? and whenever a board votes for a milestone, it is locked there's a real blog, which comes into effect, which means that bore not cannot beyond the last known my stone. And also, we are after voting for a milestone, right? So that's the summary of how the entire milestone mechanism works. Yeah, if there are any questions, something happy to take them as well.
Yeah. I mean, one more point. There's also for the end users or the developers, they can subscribe to the finalized API, which is pretty similar to what Ethereum provides in order to know when they're transaction. Or their block has got
The block image is a transaction, was my minted was actually included So right now I mean, basically, there's a huge improvement in the UX with the milestone feature because currently people the taps, the wait, for around 128 or 256 blocks, in some cases for sensitive, d5 kind of use cases, which is a lot of time which 26 blocks is 500 plus second, which is almost 10 minutes but with milestones the finality could be achieved in as quickly as around 90 seconds to two minutes. That's what we have seen from all the tests that we have performed, with different parameters. we also find tuned the parameters so that we are able to achieve it within two minutes, in a scenario which is a huge UX improvement as compared to even 5 minutes or 128 blocks. So yeah, that's the major win for us with milestones.

**Harry Rook:** Really looking forward for some of those benefits to users when it goes on Mainnet. Yeah. Thank you Sandeep. So, I believe do have Derek do you have a few points to report back from Mumbai?

**Derek Meyer:** yeah, and also just give kind of a brief overview for those that I don't know about this, but we have a Mumbai committee which is basically what we're doing is. We're running all of the intended software upgrades on Mumbai, to make sure that everything is nice and smooth before, it makes it to the mainnet and the group of us. We have different server configurations as summer around running AWS bare metal, right? All these different options just to make sure that by the time, it gets to validators nodes, everything's running nice and smooth. So we've got I believe a total of five different validators participating in that. So far from what I've seen, we've had four out
I've already do their upgrade and so far all of the issues have been pretty nominal, things like just service requests of we aren't yet getting the milestones because we haven't yet achieved the hard fork and then also a couple of peering issues but there's very few operators. So there's a lot less people to peer with once that validator started to peer with other Mumbai Community members, then those issues all seem to resolve. So, so far everything is smooth sailing and we're looking forward to moving into the 12th, for the hard fork date and ultimately, I don't know that I can speak for everyone from the committee, but at data nexus, we're excited for this upgrade because achieving finality, quicker is gonna help with the overall app experience just in the polygon ecosystem.

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Yeah, so I was just going to say that, from our end we are working on the peering issues, we're there having a lot of github issues that have been raised in the past as well. So there's an exercise that we are doing where we are. Also trying to investigate water. why there are appearing issues in the first place? Why him doesn't say, especially I'm not able to find peers especially when they join newly to the network. So I mean, still early days, but I would say we have some short-term mitigations and a few other long-term mitigation is that we are trying to explore. So one of them is that, what we have observed is, there's this seed mode in hindal in the config, for tendent basically what it does is It establishes connections with a node with a peer for around 24 hours and then it disconnects, which is a pretty long time, for a scene node because in bore we also have a scene aware, it just exchanges peers it tries to see, it has its own mechanism to see whether a node is healthy and if it is then it just, adds it to its

And then it disconnects with the peer and that way, it's a very temporal connection and, whenever any new node comes joins the network, whoever has configured the boot node. As this particular note, it just exchanges the peer list and it disconnects and the new node already has a list of peers that it can connect to healthy notes one of the short-term mitigation, which I was talking about was to reduce this 24-hour period to, something like a few minutes, in the himdals he not, which might probably, so the other observation that, we could see from different issues was that people say that ultimately the Him Dial node, connects to the pier but after a few hours, sometimes it could take five to six hours or even eight 10 hours. So yeah, this is what we think that, probably it's because of this 24-hour period because him does he not kids, it's connected to a particular note for 24 hours straight. So until that connection is freed up, the new note just join the network might not be really getting the gun, be able to connect to the scene on itself. So yeah, like I said, it's still pretty early days but hopefully we should have solutions to all the peering issues coming few weeks.
Maybe we will reach out to you because we are running some experiments and like I said, we might as well collaborate on this. If you also have some findings, will be great.

**Derek Meyer:** Yeah, absolutely, let me know but that's largely. What we have from the committee. We'll work on a more formal Structure of How do we report this data to, the rest of the validator ecosystem as well as on these governance calls just to make sure that everyone's in lockstep agreement. But yeah, this was our kind of first report but all in all smooth sailing.

**Flavian Manea:** Time to make a small introduction. I'm Flavian, validator on polygon and also API provider. So we do handle a large number of notes. How is curious for a quick question for Derek because you're mentioning peering issues because of low number of validators in the committee. If you are looking to make a larger committee if that's an idea we would be open to join as well and help on the testing site.

**Derek Meyer:** I will note that down. I don't know that. I'm necessarily the decision maker on those types of things that I can help forward that feedback.

**Harry Rook:** Thank you very much, guys. I think that wraps up. Pretty much everything for today's meet. Unless there's any other questions that anyone has that are outside the agenda. I mean you're more than welcome to ask but if not yeah we're pretty much through the agenda. So
Yeah, Flavian. Go ahead.

**Flavian Manea:** Yeah, I want one more thing from our side. We are working on a tool to link for governance notifications, both on chain and off chain. So we were looking to see if this would be interested to be implemented of polygon. So for example, each time validators have to vote on a specific.
Upgrade to receive a notification via email slack, or other ways of receiving notification with timelines and everything, outlined there. Because sometimes, as validators and stakeholders you're not involvement, only one protocol, let's say and it's a pretty useful to have everything in one place. We were thinking of this tool set to help overall validator community.

**Harry Rook:** Yeah, I mean that sounds interesting. Would that be for the Heimdall governance module or doubly for off chain signaling, something like snapshot or something like that is that we've got in mind or

**Flavian Manea:** Living both. I think Mino can explain a little bit more as The product owner.

**Alexandru Minulescu:** So, in the first list, we focused on the own chain governance proposals, but we are planning on adding support for off chain as well, in the next release. So, the first list is targeted to build by the end of the month and we cannot support for Handel proposals, but for Pips we will have to wait a bit to…

**Harry Rook:** Okay cool. Yeah yeah I mean feel free to reach out.

**Alexandru Minulescu:** because I know there are not changes

**Harry Rook:** Shoot me an email or me and we can chat it further on it but it sounds interesting. Yeah, thank you guys.
If there's no other questions or points, then just one final bit housekeeping and then we can wrap it up. So, yeah, I'll give you guys a couple of seconds if you've got any questions but
Okay So final points then we're increasing the case of these calls to every two weeks. So the next call will be on the 21st of Same time, five Ct. and the reason for this is that, we're anticipating quite some number of pips in relation to polygon 2.0. So we'll be discussing those on these calls and in the near future. So, yeah, next, call 21st of September and yeah, they'll be What we're expecting to see some number of pips in relation to 2.0 on that next call? So yeah, be sure to tune into that one.
Yeah, that's everything for today Again, thank you all for joining and you have a good day, guys.

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Thank you.

Meeting ended after 00:18:10 👋
