# Polygon Protocol Governance Call: Transcript

#### Attendees
+1 514-***-**66, Alex PFL, antony h, Daniel Gretzke, David Silverman, David Silverman's Presentation, Derek Meyer, Dimitri Nikolaros, Eddie B, George Serntedakis, Harry Rook, Jackson Lewis, Jason Windawi, Joonkyo Kim, Justice Conder, Krzysztof Urba≈Ñski, Mateusz Rzeszowski, Matt Nathanson, Michel Muniz, Mike Brucken, Mirella Guglielmi, Parvez Shaikh, Paul Gebheim, Peter A, Pratik Patil, Pratik Patil's Presentation, Quentin de Beauchesne, Sandeep Sreenath, Scott Lilliston, Tiago - Stakin, Vincent Taglia, WebDev StakeWorks

# Transcript

**This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created.**


**Harry Rook:** Okay, we'll make a start. So welcome everyone to PPGC number 9 in terms of the agenda for today, we've got quite a few bits. So I'll just do a quick run through and then we can get started. So first of all, we're gonna do some updates on the Aalborg fork so that'd be the main net roll out. She's scheduled for 13th of October. We'll then move on to the two new EIP 1559 related PIPs, that dropped on the forum yesterday.Then we'll move on to the POL contracts that launched on Testnet yesterday followed up by some discussion around a mainnet release for support for Eip 4337 and then we'll finish off with some feedback from Gaia on the snapchat system currently used on possible. George, share the agenda. So I'll not do that. Yeah, so let's get started. Two weeks ago, on PPGC 8, we scheduled the Aalborg full release on Mainnet. We have a nice dashboard that actually has a countdown to the folk block. So I just think that for everyone and Sandeep I don't know if you want to do some quick updates on the node uptake if there's been any issues Yeah.

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Thanks, Harry for sharing the link as well. Yeah, so as you guys can see, the hard fork is scheduled to be happening on the 13th of October. So, as we had mentioned in the Forum post there, the block time in Heimdall varies a little bit due to multiple reasons. So that's the reason we have just given a time range and are happy that it's finally happening on a weekday and not falling on a weekend. and in anticipation for the hard fork, I think around 40 to 50% of the validators have already upgraded.
That's great news. And yeah, we still have one more week two, but then, we would recommend everybody to upgrade in the next few days itself. Yeah, and then there are a couple of issues that people face after upgrading to the latest releases. So let me also just go through them and also explain what we are doing about them. So the first one is that there was a different teen ID being returned in one of the RTC calls. So this was basically carried over from Geth. So, when we merged the upstream changes, we also inherited this code and it seems it breaks a bunch of things downstream. So we have ensured that the chain ID is maintained the same. I think it has to be returned as nil basically, the x encoding of me so that has been fixed the other major issues that we saw, or we observed in terms of peering. So, there have been some changes in the seed notes, or boot nodes. And unfortunately, those updates, we hadn't updated the default values earlier. So I think a lot of people were facing issues due to that although changing this settings works. But then instead of everybody having to do that, we have just updated the defaults he wants. yeah. So that's also there in the upcoming release. On the other one we also had the Internet in the Forum post that there will be some error or warning logs on board until the Aalborg Heimdall Hardfork. So yeah you in spite of as mentioning it I think a couple of people had raised this concern so we took a different approach where we implemented a new 503 status code in Heimdall, where, basically seeing that it's not yet implemented and then if Heimdall is returning that, then Bor will not, flood the logs with those error messages that you see. So yeah, this was also quickly implemented by the team kudos to the team. So we will also roll it out along with the next release. yeah. And then there were a few panics that were reported due to concurrent map read rights. This was handled, in the previous version, it's itself but then it looks like a few more places where It was missed out.
So, yeah. Now we have done a thorough job, and you ensured that, wherever there are currently rights happening, I did more logs to fix them. Yeah, I think these were issues of some feedback, which we received from the community, the last couple of days and all of these have been fixed apart from this, just yesterday There was one vulnerability. That was reported, that was basically to do with one of the dependent libraries, one of the dependencies. We have also bumped up the version it required, both a go-line version bump and also the other dependencies. So that's also something that you can expect in this release. So. Yeah, I think, currently this particular version is being tested and in the next couple of hours, we should be able to Have the release of

**Tiago - Stakin:** So it means for the ones that upgraded will need to upgrade again. With the fixes. Okay.

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Yes, I mean, so even if you don't upgrade, it will work. But yeah, if you're facing any of these issues, which I mentioned about. So it's good like you can upgrade and I think you basically, get rid of those issues.

**Tiago - Stakin:** Perfect.

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Thank you. Any other questions or any other observations that maybe some of you are seeing? Which I haven't covered.
Be happy to take that feedback as well, and yeah, I think that's pretty much it from my end from the Aarborg HardFork Harry.

**Harry Rook:** Thank you Sandeep. Yeah, let's move on. Then to the two new PIPs that recently released. So in terms of what was released it was PIP 24. So a change to the 1559 policy,  a temporary redirect in that. And then also PIP 25, which was to adjust the amount of POL in the migrator contracts. David, did you want to do a run through of those two dots?

**David Silverman:** Yeah, I am sharing my screen. I'll just run through PIP 24.
So if I can describe 24 as one of the authors essentially currently today with 1559 the way that the POS network handles it is there is a recipient at 0x70 address and it receives all of the MATIC from the base fee. And then that contract allows you to use the plasma bridge to send the mattock over to the same address. 0x75 address over on Ethereum and then anyone can permissionlessly call the exit to receive the mattock on ethereum and then burn them out of ethereum. However, due to, I believe it's PIP 19 which is changing, the native token of POS to POL that is being done by a change to the plasma bridge and it will actually break this flow. And so the authors are calling as part of PIP 24 to deploy a new recipient contract, and then adjust for as some hard fork date changes the flow of matter coming from base, v to this new recipient. The new recipient will be upgradable by the existing commit chain multisig. And that will basically allow the mattock to be burned too. With all the POL to be burned to sit in this contract until all bridge upgrades as part of polygon 2.0 are finished, in which case we will upgrade and in a future PIP rehook it up to the hook to burn it on Mainnet Ethereum this is a proposed process. Again, the only part that is encoded in a PIP today is PIP 24. the community can change course, at any point. However, I strongly recommend PIP, 24, if we want to implement PIP, 19. Yeah.

**Harry Rook:** So this would be a Bor hardfork, And it would be around the end of November.

**David Silverman:** Yeah, I defer to Sandeep S I think there's other inclusion things. We want to include in another board heart for probably bringing it up to Shanghai specifications. So, Push Zero, adding some of those other Eips. So if we were to do a hard fork in November, which I would want to include Pip 24, as well as hopefully, maybe some other ones, I don't know if sandeep you want to speak to.

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Yeah, so I think this will be one of the major changes along with the Shanghai. PIPs that code is already there in production basically. All the notes it's just that we need to activate the Shanghai block. And yeah, the third change I would say is the addition or the Improvement or the visibility in the States In transactions on the child chain. I think that's another separate topic which we can probably discuss later.

**David Silverman:** Got any questions on PIP 24, or can I move into the other pit that was proposed? Number 25.
Can we add an event in the contract to include an amount burned? Derek's question.  I think the current contract It's just a receiver, right? it's just where the 1559 goes to in the future contract, that actually does the burning happy to include events, etc, as folks, fit. But right now, there's no events being emitted as it's just part of the EVM execution, right? The base fee goes to some address.

**David Silverman:** Got with that, I'll move on to PIP 25 from the same authors. PIP, 25 was in direct response to several comments regarding PIP 17, which is the launch of the POL token and specifically. It was to equalize the initial supplies to take into account all of the burnt and inaccessible mattock. So, PIP 17 at Genesis calls for the minting of 10 million POL into the migration contract, which MATIC is the MATIC supply one-to-one. if PIP 25 is implemented, it would allow for, the burn function to be called on the migrator and burn the reflective amounts of MATIC held by the dead address, which is where we send the 1559 burn, as well as the tokens that are inaccessible inside of thematic, token address itself. There's rough numbers included there. I think the dead number is actually closer to 23 million.
Exact numbers would be updated upon PIP. 24. If it is adopted as I would give us an opportunity to kind of clean out all of the old burns and kind of end the MATIC  era of burning, allowing us to get an accurate number, to close out and equalize, the supplies. This again does not require a hard fork. This is a multisig action taken by Protocol Governance.

**Harry Rook:** As any questions on any of that stuff.

**Harry Rook:** No, any closing faults David, if not we can move on to Paul, okay?

**David Silverman:** In terms of timing, I would just say we would like to include 24 In the next hard fork, unless there's any objections to it and then for 25, if there's consensus on taking this path, we can execute it shortly. After 24, has been implemented via Hard fork, This needs to be a window to clean out, the old burns, which I'm assuming, the community would be able to do through calling the various smart contracts.
And with that PIP, 19 becomes unblocked. So that is the ability to set POL to be the native token of POS. Again strong recommendation for developers to please read PIP 19, as there are some backwards incompatibilities such as these, we've identified the 1559.

**Harry Rook:** Okay let's move on then. So yesterday was the testnet release Mr. Gretzke, I don't know if you want to do an overview of the Testnet rollout. Anything you want to discuss there?

**Daniel Gretzke:** So there were really no hiccups. We deployed the contracts of the POL token with the two accompanying contracts that are the emission manager and the migration manager. After that, we performed some tests. So unmigrating, everything works and we also tested the emission manager so that Whenever a new POL tokens are admitted. Half of it goes to the community treasury and the other half is unmigrated back to Matic and sent to the stake manager that test was also successful. So yeah, I think we're pretty much good to go. The contracts are in their final state.
And there shouldn't be anything else left really? I would prevent us from launching this on Mainnet.

**David Silverman:** Awesome.

**Harry Rook:** In terms of Mainnet timelines, David. Do you have any thoughts on that as well?

**Daniel Gretzke:** I would probably deploying the main contracts on October 25th. As long as we have community consensus on the deployment. Yeah.

**David Silverman:** I like the 25th. I think we can also check in on the next PPGC on the 19th to confirm that date, but I think that feels like It gives enough time for integrators to test, for validators to feel comfortable, and it's also not Friday.

**Paul Gebheim:** That would be morning US time afternoon, Europe, Asia. Time on the 25th, right?

**David Silverman:** I think specific times, we can discuss probably up on the next call. I would probably be along the same time frame that the Testnet was deployed in, so probably around like 5 am ET.

**Harry Rook:** Okay, that sounds good. I guess we'll discuss that more on the next call but yeah, that sounds good. Okay, let's move on to the next on the agenda item. We‚Äô've got EIP 4337 bundle transaction support. So there's been a release tag for Mainnet. Pratik's. And I don't know if you guys have any thoughts or comments on this, if you want to kind of give some updates on that.

**Pratik Patil:** Yes, I can go next, let me share the PIP.
Yeah, you can see what's going on. So in one of the previous sessions of the Ppgc call, we went to the whole PIP in detail to explain how the bundle transactions and it feels will be validated and all so In the last stable board release. We have released this API. Basically, we had to change the namespace because we want to make sure we add this particular API into Erigon. The ones that we have added support for still exists. So we shifted the names, that's from it to board. And we have implemented this tested on. And it is currently rolled out on Mumbai, as well as many. So now, if a bundler has to sent this bundle transaction, it will have to first get in touch with Valuator. Because this particular Bundle transaction will not be propagated to the peers. Therefore, the bundler must send this particular transaction to a validator. And for that, obviously, he has to have permission to send RPC calls to the validator. And therefore, he might have to get in touch with the validator so that they whitelist the particular IP so that he can send a transaction so that he can send requests to that particular evaluator. And basically, the questions are such as what happens if the value that itself enters in this particular transaction. So for that, there is a biological trust involvement where the bundler trusts that the validator, will not enter his particular transaction and the validator trust that the bundler will not basically load is particular node with a lot of RPC requests, which might crash That particular evaluator node. So basically yes, this is the bidirectional trust through which both of them will invent situations basically. Yeah, so there will be a small forum post or announcement from our side where we will explain this as well. I think I was in touch with Paul G where we might actually have a write up, where all validators will be informed regarding this as well as the bundles will be informed regarding this. Also, there's some good discussion happening on the forum post, I think Alex is here, he was, I think working on something where basically, all this transactions will be broadcasted to the values that are currently with fast which is a very good thing. I don't know if you have made any progress on this but yeah that was a good thing. 

**Alex PFL:** I mean, so we're super excited about this. In terms of how we're going to connect to validators right now. We just peer with them over the standard, like, peering mechanism. So, we're not sending an RPC thing to them, but that being said, we are already connected to them. So we do have that direct port. So it makes sense for us to do this. There's a few interesting things that are happening with these bundles right now that I find fascinating, which is that with a lot of these account extraction bundles there is value. The bundler who is able to put these operations into the bundle can collect revenue in the form of these gas storage rebates and they can often make money off of it. And what ends up happening is this really fascinating thing. That is, it's great to meet which is where bundlers will see bundles from other bundlers.Rip the operation out and then plop them into their own bundle that has a slightly higher gas fee which makes it to the validator slightly in front of the previous one. And so it's very like, bundler, pvp situations. So the one thing that we're still sort of undecided on is point blank. that system is not great or validators. Do you know the profit of it and there's a strong argument to me that it is more economically efficient having to sort of like an auction take place. What we're unsure of is that we can make a solution that allows for direct validation and transmission of these bundles, we're not sure if validators would actually be acting in their own best interests. Do it like that though, they might be better off letting the bundlers battle it out in the menpool with paying higher and higher gasses, which then make the validators more and more money. However, we think that there might be a way to split the difference and run, perhaps, some sort of auction system. And honestly this is something that we don't have strong feelings on one way or the other, validators. We're probably gonna hit you guys with the survey sometime next week on this exact subject. it's far more nuanced then we thought possible when we first started exploring this so definitely definitely want to hear everyone's opinions on this. Eddie in the day, we'll build whatever you guys want us to build. We just want to Make sure that we're thoroughly researching, every

**Pratik Patil:** Yeah, so basically there are still discussion happening with the Ethereum researchers who have proposed this API particular endpoint. And these things like they are also discussion discussing and this is still evolving so we might See some more changes around this. So yeah. But the point that you mentioned that is also true and understood we have to keep that in minus

**Dimitri Nikolaros:** Yeah, I just read the PIP. Question is this is automatically enabled by default? How can I control something like that? So We do have one client that we trust and they want to use the speaker when they call RPC. But how do we enable it? And then, how do we make it? Sure others don't call us if they know the IP or port or whatever, how does it work?

**Pratik Patil:** Yeah, so basically, the default one that you currently have on which you send your normal RPC calls to that is a sentry. if you call this API, on a sentry node that is of no use because sentry nodes cannot find this transaction. And this transaction is not broadcasted to other nodes. So it will be just the transaction itself that will get rejected. As soon as you call this fertilizer, you call this particular API in order for a bundler to send the bundle transaction and call this via this vertical API first, the minor will have to enable his RPC by default for a minor RPC, is disabled.
So he'll have to enable it and second the bundler will have to make sure that he is able to connect or basically send a request to the minor node directly.

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Yeah, basically, we will have to allow connections to the RPC. so if you look at the configuration, I think there's some allow this. I'm not sure about the exact param but then In general, for the validators, it's pretty restrictive. It's only the century which can connect. So you'll have to also allow the other note, the bundle not to be able to connect to the RPC and request. So yeah, probably the other forum posts which Pratik was talking about, we will obviously explain all the details.

**Harry Rook:** Thank you for that.  Final point now we have Eddie on a call. I think you had some points, you wanted to discuss the current Snapshot system. I think you had some feedback on that, so yeah, over to you.
Hey there. Eddie?
Okay, I think while we wait, if Eddie comes back we can potentially go through some questions. I don't know if anyone's got any questions in relation to any of the points today, but If so yeah, feel free to raise your hands.

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Yeah, I think that was again from Eddie with respect to the Pbss online tuning. So the good news there is that Polygon Labs team is actually helping Geth also to test the feature out, so we have implemented the same in more so we have already gotten it to work but then we are basically waiting for the node to sync up to catch up on Mainnet on Mumbai. I think it's almost done and we haven't seen any issues so far.
So the piece of information is that after these changes, the disk space requirements will reduce by big margin. So it could be probably 15 to 20% or, Max 25 30% of the current discussion. But then there's all being tested for the full note. So for our kind, I think we will have great for some more time. Yeah. Before we have any results. So yeah, that's a small update.

**Mirella Guglielmi:** So the previously shared timeline for 19 activation was around February to March. I think I'm wondering and I get it. If we're actually seeing good testing in Goerli. I understand why we want to move faster. I just like to understand if that actually moves. Now, are we seeing a change through all the whole timelines? So also the elbow data suit goes through and stakers as well.

**Daniel Gretzke:** So there's a lot of projects and people that rely on the bridge. So we're currently obviously getting everyone's feedback and migrating them because when you currently receive MATIC to a contract, it would receive POL in the future. So we need to make sure that everyone is aware of these upgrades. Everyone has the chance to migrate their contracts, if they need to upgrade them. And there's just take some time and if we can make it quicker, we will do it. But we obviously also don't want to leave anyone behind. Which then might cause issues with the double line.

**Mirella Guglielmi:** So mainly on October 25, what we're gonna see is the deployment of the pole contract and all the other moving spots. We're going to continue with the previous shared timeline. Is that it?

**Daniel Gretzke:** This is correct. Yes.

**Mirella Guglielmi:** All right. Thank you.

**Harry Rook**: Thank you guys. Any more questions? Eddie, I don't know if Mike's working on up but we can't hear. But if you want to type in a question,
Thanks for joining and I'll see you on the next one.

**Meeting ended after 00:35:30 üëã**
