# Polygon Protocol Governance Call: Transcript

### Attendees
Alex PFL, Anshal Shukla, Ben Rodriguez, Christopher Von Hessert, Daniel Gretzke, David Silverman, Dimitri Nikolaros, Fireflies.ai Notetaker Flavian, George Serntedakis, Harry Rook, Jackson Lewis, Jerome de Tychey, Joonkyo Kim, Justice Conder, Liz Steininger, Manav Darji, Manav Darji's Presentation, Marcello Ardizzone, Marcello Ardizzone's Presentation, Mateusz Rzeszowski, Matt Garnett, Mihailo Bjelic, Parvez Shaikh, Pulkit Mittal, Rahil's MeetGeek Notetaker, river 0x, Scott Lilliston, Shivam Sharma, Tiago - Stakin, Ulaş Erdoğan, Yuling Ma

# Transcript

#### **This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created.**

**Harry Rook:** Okay, welcome everyone to PPGC number 14 final installment of 2023 for those of you that just joined. I'll reshare the agenda.
Yeah, So we've got a fairly stacked one today to round off the year. So I'll quickly run through the main points. We'll start with the proposed Napoli Hartford. And we'll move on to considerations for a second artfork in Probably around Q2. We'll move on to my testnet launch and deprecation of Mumbai and then we'll discuss a recent pip around ancient data pruning for validating nodes. Followed by an update on the timeline for pip 18 and then we'll finish off with kind of an update around the rollback of Ball version 1.2.0 to version 1.1.0. So without further Ado, let's move on to Napoli hardfork. So this been formalized in pip31, which I've just shared main things is it merges some Downstream Cancun changes and yeah, I think Marcello's on the call to kind of Give some more updates and detail on this one. So Marcello, I'll hand it over to you, sir.

**Marcello Ardizzone:** Thanks Don't maybe I'll share the screen so that everyone can follow.
So yeah be 31 is about the execution of this new at Fort called Napoli, which is going to happen in board. The timeline is not yet 100% confirmed that realistically we are targeting January February or testnet and then mainnet will we follow after monitoring and testing phase? In the epip OR in related Forum post here as you can see we have some changes that are included from Upstream. Basically, we have reference to 1153 56 56 and 7680. Let me explain what this proposal are about. Something with the first one. So 1153 introduces basically these transient storage operations. This means that the users will be able to use T load and distort. Which are this new opcodes. They basically manipulate the state the same way they used to manipulate storage. But with different that we transient ones are discarding after every transaction. So basically the smart contracts won't require this access for some operation. the ones explain here. So basically we could have interframe communication or on chain computable creation of addresses or single transaction approvals for years sequence each of some just cases. For this operations basically are going to be way cheaper. And also easily backwards compatible for example, in solidity the transient qualifier can be introduced pretty easily and this will leverage the same addressing scheme of a store and as load.
This will require a hardfork in ethereum as mentioned before and it's going to be a part of our four keywords. Then we have 56 56. Which is all about the new evm instruction for copying memory areas. The creators made some analysis on specific block frames as explained in the originally AP this one where they realize that traffic 10% of the memory copied could benefit of improved performance with the availability of a new dedicated and copy instruction. And this will be extremely helpful, especially for computational every operation.
Where it has been demonstrated through this paper that lower gas will be needed for such execution. Also in this case could be needed for the changes but smart contracts willing to use this new instruction the need to change their behavior and business logic to all your code then we have this one 6780. Which basically changes the behavior of the circular top code in a slightly different way basically when this is called in the same transaction the contract was created it will work as it used to do in the past. But when executed in a transaction that is not the same as the contract creation transaction, then the data won't be deleted. It's explaining in the details here with storage Keys code or the account itself and the account balance will be transferred to the Target while before in this other case here under certain things questions. You could basically burn the Italian balance. this changes to accommodate basically the New Vertical trees Atrium will introduce and since it modifies the consensus rules. It will require an Arts working as heating too.
Besides these three that are included from Upstream in Napoleon Fork. We have some that we excluded. 4788 it's basically exposes the vegan chain routes in the EDM. And of course it won't be available in more because we don't depend on the same consensus layer as atheism as then we have 4844 excluded for the same reason and this proposal basically implements the transaction formats that will be eventually used in traveling but without actually sharding the transaction but instead this transaction format is going to be part of the big contain itself. And it can be downloaded for example by the consensus notes. and then we have lastly 7560 which is about the introduction of a new opcode blood-based fee and this one basically Returns the value of the base V for the current block where the block is executed. And since we don't support such Club transaction in the current POS system, we are clearly not enabling it. Yeah, I think that summarizes a bit the content of the artwork. So if you have any question, please feel free to ask other going back to you.

**David Silverman:** Yeah, I just want to speak on behalf of some of the cdk teams building the various Brewers including the one that will help POS convert to zkpos that none of these changes will complicate that transition. In fact support for these has already been written out as part of the type 1 support for Cancun and is an active testing additionally as was discussed a bit in dev Discord. In other venues. There's some comfortability at least across the steps that I work with to move forward with this hard Fork two main net whether or not ethereum has completed Cancun on Main net. There' we would like to see it ideally done on at least one of the ethereum test Nets prior to POS main not being hard for it. So that's just some of the deaf perspective from polygon labs and other depths in the Discord.

**Harry Rook:** Thank you guys. So as well as those kind of Downstream changes from Cancun there's also the possibility of EIP 7212. So this was formalized in a pit. So pip 27. Not sure if you guys in the chat. So this had been discussed on the previous two roll call of deciding on some of the final details around The compiled liver and of that kind of stuff. Yeah. I don't know if we have Dylan or Ula. To kind of give an update of where we are with 7212 and then Marcello. Discussion kind of potentially including that in Napoli afterwards. Yes.

**Ulaş Erdoğan:** Hello. Thanks very much in me. Personally. I'm including in agenda. And I thank you here quick update on where we are now for the EIP or rip for the market in the last two roll call. We have decided that it's better to move on as a roll-up Improvement proposal and start implementations on different role-ups and evm like that side chains and after that option considering VIP and the applicable for the album or not and most of the Roll-Ups including polygon. Shared that they are willing to implement the Erp before the L1 and it was a role consensus on the roll cost to move rip into the last call and now it's on the last call which is waiting for finalizing the specifications and the less missing part of the specification of the implementation address until today and two hours ago. I have a comment for the ACD call. And a separate of objects address lists has been proposed for. The RIT precompiles and the address of this compile contract will be 0x100. I will Implement the pr for the RIT today and also I will change the PIP by implementing the latest changes on the EIP MIT. and possibly we will have two weeks of deadline for hearing about latest feedback during the last call and if we won't see any big change, probably it will be on final stage as an rip in the first week of the new year and I would love to hear any feedback or change the cast from you and holding on community and I think we are good to go on Implement into any chain. And I think we had a reference implementation in goatarium, but it has been implemented as a draft Pi in the polygon.

**Harry Rook:** Okay, and if feedback questions guys, Mr. Silverman, yeah good.

**David Silverman:** I would again say from the lab side a big shout out to the clavic team for shepherdings through both ACD and the roll call group rip process. I think it was from our side. We feel very comfortable with including this in Napoli provided that the roll call Rip does kind of finalize just to ensure that any implementation we do is consistent with other LTS. So once that's finalized, no issue on our side with inclusion.

**Jerome de Tychey:** You want to join the Bitcoin regulations? The frequent address as well. It's pretty exciting.

**Harry Rook:** All Thank you Jerome. So yeah, Marcello, I guess. They're in mind those kind of latest details. Are you happy to include this? Within pip 27 considered, consider it for inclusion in the q1 hardware.

**Marcello Ardizzone:** Yeah, So basically the implementation is almost done in more. We have a pending PRS us I also see you left some comments. Thanks for that. So yeah, David mentioned already. We're pretty confident to proceed. We will wait for this green light and then if no one here has any objections we'd like to include. The notary of focus as well.

**Harry Rook:** Okay, I guess that's a good sign. In terms of timeline Marcello and David. Have you got a rough estimate? you have in mind at the minute or

**David Silverman:** I think Marcello said earlier in the call the target was to try to go to test that sometime in January potentially early February if we need to slip with assuming no issues may not shortly after that. again, the condition I would ask for consensus on here is that I think it is, from our teams perspective. We would not like to see Poss main net introduced the Cancun changes until at least one aetherium test net. I believe gorillas first. Go through with the changes and appear to be stable prior to us moving forward, most of the Cancun hard fork. And ethereum the danger area of the code is within 4844. So we just want to kind of see a good check allow us to run some tests on whichever ethereum test it is as well as Mumbai prior to moving forward if the community wants to wait until the theory may not though very open to being more conservative on timing as well. Yeah.

**Harry Rook:** Yeah, I mean make still a sense our next call is January 11th, so it gives us another check-in I guess before I have testnet date. So yeah, perhaps we can discuss that again on the next ppgc. But yeah, sounds all good. okay, so next item on the agenda is I'm kind of items been considered for inclusion in a potential second hard fork in I think it's around early Q2 2024 yeah, I believe we have Matt from the EF on because one of the main kind of considerations is P 3074. So yeah, Matt, I don't know if you wanted to kind of give an overview of the PIP kind of some of the benefits and where things are in terms of development on layer one. All right. Yeah, thanks for having me on the call guys. Just wanted to share a high level of 3074 in case you're not familiar with it at all. Basically what 374 does is it introduces two new OP codes into the evm. Those up codes are awesome call. And the idea with this is that we want to give this smart account functionality to the EOS that exist on these networks. I know that project four to three seven are quite successful and on polygon and they're really in there be beginning stages and I think 437 is going to make it pretty big impacts for polygon, but in other chains and even in the polygon ecosystem EOS are still very prevalent within the chain and until we have some kind of native accounts abstraction framework, which it's really not clear that we're going to be able to see that in any time in the near future. He always are going to be a part of the picture. And so 374 is really just trying to level the playing field for Eos and smart contract wallets. So there's some specifics about exactly how these things work and we recently made a pretty small change to try it and reduce the security concerns that have been raised by a couple of the core developers Daniel from bassoon and yoav who's working on the 437 project. So I think in terms of 374 there's a pretty old proposal. We've been trying to push it on to L1 since the London hard fork with introduced fits and 59 and we've really gained planned a lot of the possibilities a lot of the concerns that people might have with 374 this changes that we recently made to sign over. The account's nonce was something that we've been discussing for a couple years, so it wasn't really a surprise so In terms of a Readiness 3074 is very easy to implement. We've implemented gas and wrath when you come to my cross client tests. I don't think that implementation is any kind of concern? Really? It's just a matter of going through the rip process and making sure that other l2's are happy with what the thing looks In terms of what does 374 provide? the polygon ecosystem in general, I think the number one thing is it's going to give a lot of developers the possibility to experiment with new ux flows. Is this something that they've been really demanding over the past six months and that's why 374 is sort of come back on the radar. We're seeing these hacks that deal with approval flows and a lot of people are demanding that we try to understand how to improve how to improve these things and try to mechanisms that don't require these approval workflows. So 374 is really focused on those types of things and letting the developers try to experiment and see how we can do the things differently and if it's successful on polygon, I think it's very possible and pretty likely to see a deployed an L1 so that would be really amazing. How come in general is for l2's to adopt something ahead of time Joe? It's successful and then you finally get it onto the one. That's pretty much 10374 happy to answer any questions or comments about it.
Good, David.

**David Silverman:** Yeah, I would say speaking of a personal perspective. I think we don't view 3074 as conflicting with 4337. In fact, I think it's important to put out as there are many users that have eoas that want to use EOS and deserve to have smart contract type functionality which is what 30 47 30 74 gives them additionally. There's an additional EIP for another change that would allow EOS to convert to Smart wallets long term and combined with 374 provides a great upgrade path for those using Legacy accounts. And so I see this is as a necessary step towards converting everyone to using account abdractable wallets in the long term and so very fully supportive of this additionally separately putting on the hat of polygon labs having discussed with the proof of your team's introduction of this on the POS Network would not delay zkpos the 3074 circuits are under construction. So it's not significantly delay the timeline of the zkpos migration. Should this be added?

**Jerome de Tychey:** I have a small concern that maybe completely advantage. So, excuse me, if I'm not 100% understanding here you were better for the rising works, but it seems like from a user perspective. Once you have authorized specific account to spend your ken. So your native to again. maybe in a context where we have some problems with people blind signing things the W with the hacker credit to later recently. do you see that as a way to make things worse or maybe not make things easier for the user to know words authorized to get in it. So I don't know if that was already raised as a concert, but let me know if you

**Matt Garnett:** I mean, it's something that's been discussed within the security. framework of 374 and from the perspective walls today. there's no way to even sign a 374 message because of the discriminator bite at the beginning of the signature. And so it's really our wallets going to move forward into this new paradigm and adopts the 374 signature. So we don't have to worry about somebody having a wall and then just kind of blind sign something because it's just not possible today given the current endpoints and so stay the walls Supports the sign authorization messages then. We really just have to be cognizant and see how they try to do it and try to provide feedback and try to do things in a safe way because you can do these types of things in a safe way the straw man for it is that just the wall just doesn't allow people to sign 30 74 authorizations and then you don't have a problem obviously with blind signing at 3074 authorization. So then if you move away from that and say, okay the wallet is going to allow the user to sign one. Authorization to a specific address which has been accepted by the community as a safe implementation of 37 and foreign poker. Then there's not really a concern because that's the only thing that users can do if they blind science something over that the rest of the security framework sits in that invoker, so I think that we're giving Powers more power to wallet developers, which I think is a totally fair things to do because the wall it's software already controls your private key. And so really we're just allowing them to programmatically delegate some of that control rather than doing all within Hardware or software. So there are unsafe ways that the walls are going to be able to do Implement 374 and we just have to keep an eye and if those types of things happen, we have to bring it to lights and tell the community this is not a safe way for a wall to be implemented type of assigning. and back to your question a little bit. To avoid The Blind Side on Ledger ledgers just going hot to implement to this 3074 signature just like they would Implement any other transaction type and I would make the recommendation that they need to be super clear. Whenever the user signing this thing. Hey, you're signing a message that is signing delegation of your account. it needs to be extremely clear it shouldn't be hidden behind some blind signature flag. So that would be how I would imagine while it's with adopt the type of scient

**Daniel Gretzke:** Perhaps it would be possible to write some form of snap for metamask. Where we can detail a lot better what this year in 3074 signature contains. Because I think we can utilize meta mass in their kind of snapstore to write our own. implementation to make it safer to use But probably as that also might solve The Ledger issue if a lot of people are in conjunction with metamask And none of us is still. Arguably one of the most used wallets out there. This is mad about stops allow raw signing.
I don't think so. But 3074 I think should anyways use EAP 712 signatures something interest.

**Matt Garnett:** It will not use 712 signatures. So it looks like a transaction is the thing. So it has a transaction type that's not already utilized so wallets will need to specifically implement the ability to sign the 374 message. So it starts something that's going to be rolled out to exist. It's not something that's possible with the existing wallets, like a ledger will have to have an update just like they have for 15 to 9.

**Daniel Gretzke:** Yeah, seems like you're right. In that case still maybe if we're able to write some snap and encourage, an initial beta test using let's not from the store. maybe that Would provide some time for other Wallace to catch up as well.

**Matt Garnett:** Yeah, I can't speak for Ledger, but I think metamask is very on board with allowing. 3074 to be usable via snaps. So that's something that I would expect.

**Harry Rook:** Thank you guys. Yeah, I so following on from that and in the second main inclusion that we spoke about on the previous ppgc was increasing the most code size. So yeah, I mean if you want to kind of brush up on those discussions look through the previous kind of call notes. And yeah, David, I don't know if you had a rough idea around timelines for this one, I think. it's like

**David Silverman:** It's dependent on the Napoli hard Fork. But I think there is depending on if Napoli goes out in February. I think we could see this one Beyond testnet around the late April timeframe.I think from the Polygon Labs perspective one. This is the last kind of major hard work. We see a bunch of execution level changes prior to the focus shifting towards the ZK Poss upgrade and stake migration. So I think late April is the soonest we could see this on test that but again, I don't want to make any assumptions on timing until Napoli live and we have better testing of the client code but I think both of the proposed inclusions, which is 3074 as well as a pip 30, which is the max code size increase. I'd like to see I think probably on Labs we'd like to see both discussed at roll call and especially any changes made to 374. We just like to see a little bit more consensus around them prior to us feeling very comfortable as polygon laps. But if the community wants to move forward we would support that as well.

**Harry Rook:** okay, Any questions guys before we move on from that? Yeah. Give you guys a minute if you've got any questions. Okay, Let's move on. So next I'm on the agenda is my test Network launch and was the deprecation of Mumbai Shivam you on the call. Let me check just to kind of give some updates. On that one.

**Shivam Sharma:** I GM guys so as we know that Goerli testnet has mean serving as the rook's in for the Mumbai test net POS chain. However, it is scheduled to depreciate and also major RPC providers are going to discontinue support in next quarter and also communicate Community consensus was to duplicate the Mumbai testnet as well. So a more testnet will be now serving as the child chain for support isn't it? Since people are going to move to support from goli. So we have chosen it to be the root in both the Mumbai and mites notes will be operating independently initially for the first time so that we can ensure that uses and developers have smooth transition. Also, the transitional transition will ensure that the availability of essential. it is partners and tooling is also in place for more sustainable and future proof involvement and
So basically it is in a progress and the network is already up and we will soon release a head support for imposed and also just adding more toolings and all and probably will be released soon, and this will be

**Harry Rook:** Thank you Any questions on that guys? If not, we can move on to. pip 18 update. Okay, cool, so Kind of updates on the whole pip 18 polygon 2.0 timeline David. Did you want to give some updates on that one?

**David Silverman:** Yeah, we've received a lot of comments in the Forum as well as feedback from many stakeholders in the ecosystem several of them are on this call and I think the initial timeline we had given for pip 19, which was the change of the gas token of POS from Matic to Pol was originally discussed to be done in early January dude, it turns out we did not have the consensus that we thought he had from the ecosystem. And in fact, there's been significant pushback. I would love to reopen the discussion on this call to push such an upgrade to be delayed out to Q2 to be in line with when the staking upgrade for POS itself will go through to change the stake token from Matic to Pol. basically combining these two phases on the PIP 18 road map together. The idea here is it will also out for many of the various exchanges and many other custodians and venues to just deprecate Matic at a singular Point as after that update goes through for POS staking and POS gas. There would be no live production systems using Matic in a core serious manner across the two polygon chains. So that is the kind of To put new proposal we would like to put out based on a lot of partner feedback if anyone wants to speak to this, Please comment and chat speak up. Yeah a big thank you to many partners for giving their feedback and Advising on the correct way to plan this out.

**Harry Rook:** Okay, there's no questions. I think we can move on. Yeah, David's I think in the new year, I guess we can sync on updating the word and I guess within pip 18. Yeah.

**David Silverman:** Yeah. the only other update for pip 18 I can give is that the team is very far along on a initial draft of the staking Hub. And we're hoping to have an initial developer release early in the new year for folks to play around with on what staking will look like broadly across cdk development will then shift towards the POS specific service. So again just kind of the rollout of the stakin Hub will be kind of the generic contracts. We'll probably give an example for how a sequencer can be operated through the staking Hub. And then the the engineering teams will shift to the specific service. So folks can begin testing what it would look like for the POS Network to be run via staking Hub staking and once the community feels comfortable with that code base a pebble. We brought forward to begin that migration.I don't know if Daniel gretzke. I think he's on the call if he wants to give a specific update on the work being done over there.

**Daniel Gretzke:** And could you repeat?

**David Silverman:** We hoping to get a developer preview of the staking Hub. as a base probably sometimes next year. I know there's any specific update you wanted to provide if at all that's the community.

**Daniel Gretzke:** yeah, so we know basically switch to a building in public. So all the progress can be seen in the staking Hub repo on the deaf branch. We have an initial. Kind of job implementation done of how this taking help will work and we're currently finalizing specs for slashing. The Next Step will then be to then finalize the specs based on the code and see What functionality is missing? We are also then looking at our default strategy for staking the pole token. That is being developed alongside of it. And where it's looking at any inconsistencies between the implementations. Is there anything? One part needs from the other that is currently not being provided. We are looking to complete by the end of January depending on how fast we're respect complete and how many changes we can expect from David. But so far everything has been going at a good place. And I think that's pretty much it.

**David Silverman:** awesome thanks, Daniel. Back to you Harry.

**Harry Rook:** Thank you very much. Alex go ahead sir.

**Alex PFL:** Hello. So one of the things that we've been seeing of a lot of requests of and that quite frankly. We're probably the number one requesters is the ability to see on polygon Poss. Staking information. So not just which validators have stake who's in the set? But specifically there's a way at least quasiatomically trickle down the information for the delegators on ethereum mainnet right now to polygon POS and a way that would be extremely valuable. I'm not just for allocating. The block rewards which right now are typically just accruing and eoas on the polygonne POS side. But also when it comes to Mev and solving some of the staking and collateral and cross-chain accounting issues, so would be very interested. I know it's a huge ass in a very heavy list, but if there's any path towards that I would be very much in favor of it.

**David Silverman:** That if I'm correct on roll call there was discussion of a royal Improvement proposal that would make the state route of the most recently kind of synced eat block available as an opcode. Would something like that be useful if I know it would probably require some form of Markle proof like somebody else tracking it. But if you had access to the state ethereum Theory the etherium block State Route the most recent one with that. Would that be of assistance or is it specifically the staking information a bit more granularly?

**Alex PFL:** so that would help but it's still like, whenever dealing with the Merkel Roots you kind of have to know Where I always get the tops on the bottom some stuff, but you have to already know the staking holders address in order to prove that they actually have mistake. It's like you can't really necessarily work backwards unless you already have the information and what would be really really helpful as a way to just actually get all of the information ahead of time. there's a way around it though. we could build in some sort of centralized relay that we sign or something like that to verify the information but I think in general both for us as well as for a lot of other validators the more we can offload the liability especially for something as important as stakin and what we can offer that to trustless systems the better in my mind.

**Daniel Gretzke:** Perhaps you can reach out to me and then we can see how we can build something useful for you taking Hub that is coming up. because right now we have the option of State routes and verifying State routes, but this is about it. Because even delegation contracts are separate contracts, and I know that this makes everything but more complicated. So we're now trying to make it better with the sticking up. Feel free to reach out and then we can have a separate discussion about that so I can also maybe understand a bit better. What data do you need? How often do you need it? What are you using it for?

**Harry Rook:** Okay, Thank you guys. Yeah, I think we can move on to. the next time the agenda which is a very recent bit31 which is proposal for ancient data pruning for validating nodes manav. Did you want to do a quick presentation on this one? Yeah, based on the pit.

**Manav Darji:** Thanks Definitely. Just let me share mostly. So yeah, this basically a recently introduced pip which is having the ability to prune the insulator for viewers. So just to give a brief background so board which is derived from get. Stores data in two different areas. So one is the level DB Value store, which stores the recent most state and recent most blocked data for faster it will and it's supposed to be stored on a very SSD or something. But yeah, so the data Beyond those initial blocks, so that's the configurable limit which is 90,000 at the moment. So the data Beyond this blocks is basically move to a different data store, which is just named as a freezer database, but it's stored in a different. format, and it's like It's a bit comparatively. It's not as fast as level DB because of the nature of the data. So yeah, basically to look at some of the statistics. These are some of the recent values the size of the total database which for me in it and tested not that I think I'm pruned as of now. These are unrolled values, but once I get some recent updated values for the same. but just to give just of it you can see that accounts for 21% of the total size in Destiny. So the PPS about pruning of this particular ancient data. So this is different from the existing pruning support already which is basically State pruning which removes some unnecessary Landing data from the recent most state, but this proposal is more about removing the ancient data. all so yeah, of course a simple benefit for this to reduce the disk space. specifically for normal users for normal node operators who don't really serve any sort of historical RPC request don't really require that data for example validators. The only care about the recent most state and the need to follow the chain from till the tip. So something like that. It's a bit different from the EIP 4444 proposal out there from quite a long time. So yeah, the four fours is basically to stop serving historical data in the P2P Network itself. This is of course a step towards it but a bit tackles in a bit different way. So yeah, of course, you can find a specifications and some of the intricacies of how it will work out there. So you shout out to an external contributor Who initiated the implementation for this particular feature? It's already out there as a POS request but is it in present as of now in the official releases? So yeah, of course, you can read more about how it will work. coming to one of the main points of discussion with the community. So this basically a couple of security concerns. One of them is that it will definitely impact the data availability of the chain because the nodes which are maintaining the historical data. The instant data will be reduced and of course it will be difficult to find peers who will be able to serve this particular data. kind of for force and a simple counter argument to that is that a lot of people heavily rely on Snapchats for the initial synchronization and is there very rare cases of people thinking actually from scratch because it takes I think months for minute. So yeah. And yeah, some of the concerns of course there are alternatives which are mentioned over here. So yeah, this is just a proposal to have an open discussion about some of the other concerns if there are any and in late. decide on what should be the next step of in clusion of this particular feature Yeah.

**Harry Rook:** Thank you Any questions guys, I saw some. Feedback and relation to David's tweet with the agenda. So yeah, if there's any of comments or feedback then yeah, feel free.

**Manav Darji:** Yeah. Yeah, I think for valid it definitely makes sense a bit. because they don't really yeah to just perform their job of block building and validating but they don't really need to store this ancient data. So, of course There are simple Alternatives moving the ancient data to hard disk or something to do a different data storage. totally that's also one of the considerations but yeah.

**Harry Rook:** Okay, Yeah, I guess that rounds off that point. Yeah, there's any more chat around the proposal we can discuss again in the interest of time, let's move on to the final point. So yeah Ball version 1.2.0. There's actually a forum That I'll share in the chat for a downgrade due to some issues that were identified. Marcello, I don't know if you're still on the call that did you want to just give a few? Updates on what's happening there?

**Marcello Ardizzone:** Thanks So yeah some weeks ago. We released the new version one two, zero containing basically the Upstream functionalities leading to Cancun upgrade. The thing is that we have observed two issues related to this release. One is about the database growth rate where we detected the spike until validators nodes eventually causing the extortion of the disk space. And the other one is about the pruning functionalities which stopped working on the last roll out. So we are actually really looking into the issues. But in the meantime, as you mentioned, we asked all validators sensor this providers to downgrade so last stable version 1 1 0. And again, it's just the precautionary measure right as we know there's no one fork lens for one to zero. So it's safe to downgrade on all type of nodes to the latest one zero version. Yeah, as you mentioned we've also released the foremost. Which contains all the instruction and how to execute the process of downgrading? Yeah, that's pretty much it. Thank you.

**Harry Rook:** Yet Dimitri.

**Dimitri Nikolaros:** Hey Marcello, this is regarding, the issue where the result sometimes there's a maybe 50 validators who miss the same block. And I know the team has been looking into is there any updates on that or any new discoveries that for example yesterday on block 55 to 39? There's something validators who missed that block the checkpoint. Do we have any updates on that?

**Marcello Ardizzone:** So we're looking at issues from different angles networking P2P. And also the Maison against manner was working on something related to that. So. On a fifth that's the case. Maybe you can get an update.

**Manav Darji:** Yeah, So yeah, one of the angles which already much Dimension is that we are looking it from a P2P angle to have some more observability on the handle layer to see if the block tion or specifically to The checkpoint would propagation happens among the validators correctly. We should have that kind of data soon to probably Derive some conclusions that to be sure how actually we can improve it but yeah one other angle, of course, is that a valley as a validator? there's all obviously this problem of deniability that one can deny not seeing any votes. So that's all very of edgy angle. But yeah, that's one of the things which we are. Looking into to see you can eliminate that.

**Dimitri Nikolaros:** Okay, because one Behavior I noticed. Are validator every time this happened in the last maybe a month? We never miss the checkpoint when that happens. So I'm happy to share any config or any anything you need maybe to help because it's not random validators. I feel like it's always like the same 50 or more or less why are we never not bucket every time it's strange, right? So I'm happy to share maybe the configuration that we have. we have a century node. That's next to the validator in the same data center. I don't want to presentation's Brand next. I don't know that helps. So let me know if there's anything we can give you guys to help. Yeah.

**Marcello Ardizzone:** Thanks, yeah, we're also investigating on different communication within centrals and validators. We are also collecting a lot of data that tool steam is helping there a lot. So yeah, we're doing our best working on it. Thanks always get back to you in case any help is needed. Thank you.

**Tiago - Stakin:** Just rather on this topic. It also happens always when all the same block proposal at least we noticed that mostly the validator is it's almost the same. Maybe it could be. The peering of that specific holiday that I don't know if you already have the Peerless or something like that.

**Marcello Ardizzone:** Yeah tomb we also the back that some patterns with regards to the proposer of that specific block where the checkpoint is. But yeah doing that one analysis.

**Tiago - Stakin:** Okay. Thank you.

**Marcello Ardizzone:** Thank you.

**Harry Rook:** Thank you Marcello. Any closing thoughts guys? If not, we can wrap up because we're pretty much bang on time. Thank you guys. Obviously next call being next year, January 11th. So yeah, everyone have a good New Year's and yeah, I'll see you on the next call.

**Meeting ended after 00:55:51 👋**

