# Polygon Protocol Governance Call: Transcript

### Attendees
Anastassis Oikonomopoulos, Andre Ferreira, atlas staking, Ben Rodriguez, Daniel Gretzke, David Silverman, Dimitri Nikolaros, Dogan Alpaslan, Fireflies.ai Notetaker Michel, George Serntedakis, Harry Rook, Jackson Lewis, Jerome de Tychey, Joonkyo Kim, Marcello Ardizzone, Mateusz Rzeszowski, Michel Muniz, Mike Brucken, Mirella Guglielmi, Panagiotis Alexiou (Peter Alexiou), Paul O'Leary, Pratik Patil, Pratik Patil's Presentation, Sandeep Sreenath, Scott Lilliston, Shivam Sharma, Sid Ramesh, Tiago - Stakin, Tobias Geiger

# Transcript

#### _This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created._

**Harry Rook:** Okay, welcome move on to ppgc number 15 first installment of 2024. Hope everyone's feeling refreshed and I'm ready to go in terms of the agenda for today mainly buckets are the Napoli upgrades and also AI testnet developments to share the agenda. In the chat and we can kick it off. So main things with the Napoli upgrades awesome updates around the Cancun changes as well as updates on our IP 7212 and then also some updates on pip 16. So transaction dependency data some updates around that one and also ideas around testnet rollout.So in terms of Napoli, do we have anyone on that can give some updates here? I think it's Who's on today so over to Sandeep?

**Sandeep Sreenath:** hey, everyone. Yeah, so on Napoli Hard fork as Harry was mentioning. So we have mainly three, inclusions there the Cancun ai's EIP 7212 which is based on 256 R1 curve support for verification of that and pip 16. I think that was covered quite some time back. So we also have the call to discuss more on that. So that's on the transaction dependency data. And this is something that will enable us to enable parallel mining once it is implemented. But yeah, so there are some changes in the headers, which is what we are trying to push it up across, along with the Nepali hard work. So on the client development, I think there were this to give a grief overview. So we had released version 1.2.0 which had some issues when we were testing it on the mainnet. I mean it was rolled out but I think only after a few days after the rule out few validators and not started, high disk usage and towards the end of the year we had to roll back to use the stable version which is one which was 1.1.0 on mainnet. So we have identified the issues. there are majorly two issues High disk uses and also the pruning feature wasn't working anymore. So both the issues have been fixed and we have released a beta attack 1.2.2 beta which is still being tested, but I think it fixes the issues for We are still monitoring it for a couple of days and we'll have announcement very soon on the new version. Yeah, so that's mainly regarding the client development in the next few weeks. We should have better, results from both few minutes maintain clothes as well as my notes and post that we again, start discussing over the hard 4 days. So I'm starting two and two I don't think until is present here on the EIP 7212. We have all the changes. Yeah.

**Dogan Alpaslan:** It sorry, this is Dawn from clave. I'm one of the authors of 7212 to so I can quickly. Introduce to the latest state of the proposal if you don't mind.

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Sure, please go ahead.

**Dogan Alpaslan:** So yeah in the past week and we had the last call for the EIP and the EIP has turned as the first roll-up involvement proposal. and the specifications we got a consensus over this specifications and it's final right and then there's no other blockers if you want to push it to the mainnet and we are right now okay to add for a nice touch with hard work for any rollup including Polygon’s ZKEVM or even like polygon CDK. And right now all things are done. The only thing that we think is remaining is that adding we need more tests for get implementation because the only test that we have done is made by our team. So maybe polygon score team core developers can also try and test the pro Compact. And yeah, this is the only thing that I want to add here. Yep. We are go to Just

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Okay, Thanks a lot. And I think that that's what I wanted to cover as well that we have ported the pr from upstream and we are also in the process of identifying and writing more test cases and also doing some thorough testing on once we have the basic unit tests ready. So that's what the core team will be working on in the next couple of days if not weeks, on napole. I think the only other pending item which we wanted to discuss was PIP 16 pratik. Maybe if you can quickly refresh, what it includes and what are the features that it will enable us, to go live with later on.

**Pratik Patil:** Yeah, so PIP 16 creates two of block STM or basically parallel execution on polygon that we have. So PIP 16 basically adds transaction dependency. Which basically tells out of this and transactions on the block or what a particular transaction depends on and this particular data will be used by the parallel executor when other nodes apart from the minor basically verifies this block so that they can schedule the transactions in parallel processes such that there will be zero number of awards in the transactions, which will basically improves the execution time of a block. So yeah, basically what we are doing here is minor when mining a block will basically calculate this transaction dependency and it will put it inside the extra field in the block header. So the transaction dependency will be rlp encoded and it will be basically put in extra field along with the extra vanity and extra seal that we already have so this will require a hard fork and yes, we will be enable and after this hard for this changes will be enabled and after that the parallel executor can use this transaction dependency to schedule the transactions efficiently. So that is all this PIP was already explained by Jerry in previously called therefore. I'm not going into details of it. But all in all this is what we'll be enabling with the next part. Yeah. Thank you. Let me know if you have any questions.

**Harry Rook:** I just wonder if there is any thinking around… because this will reduce gas, I guess or compute for nodes executing blocks. Is there any ideas around reducing gas to reflect that in the future or? 

**Pratik Patil:** So reducing gas or do you mean by increasing the gas limit of a block?

**Harry Rook:** Yeah, as in the way in which the execution is priced in gas. Yeah.

**Pratik Patil:** So basically a transaction will take the same amount of gas whether it is executed apparently or sequence really it won't good.

**Paul O'Leary:** Yeah, sorry, go ahead. I think I'm kind of gonna say just what you are basically which is that I mean, I would say we wouldn't. We probably wouldn't want to mess around if gas calculations because that kind of potentially breaks compatibility with other evm implementations. The effect that this would have for us is being able to push the block gas limit which is interesting that that's kind of popped up as the point of conversation in the East world right now. I think metallic just proposed that to get bumped to 40 million gas which is kind of what we would like to do is continue to increase that capacity. We have a very different world, We have two second block times. We have a lot more State So ethereum, I think probably could more easily bump their gas limit, but this is that path of us trying to make the block execution the Black Creation more efficient so that the goal is to incrementally raise the gas limit on the Block and therefore increase your capacity.

**Harry Rook:** Thank you very much Paul. I'm pretty and any other questions guys any thoughts as well. Feel free to chime in.

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Okay, if there's nothing else on Napoli, I think you pretty much covered all the topics. If Shivam is here, we want him to cover the latest updates on my testnet.

**Shivam Sharma:** Hey, hi everyone GM. So yeah, my testnet is up and running. We have a good number of nodes that are in the initial phase and around 30 nodes are already there on the network Explorer is already being tested and okay link is the Explorer that will serve Amy as of now all so several other services are ready to go and the faucet the bridge and the staking UI. So yeah, you can expect that Moi announcement very soon. And yeah it would be available for the users. very soon

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Thanks a lot Shivam. I think that pretty much covers what we had in mind Harry. Is there anything else?

**Harry Rook:** And yeah, I was going to see if there's anyone from Mumi. Testnet committee. They just wanted to give some updates on how stable there they're notice, with the new version 1.2.2.

**Andre Ferreira:** So, my name is Andre. I'm part of the stake pool team. I'm a full detective developer there. So yeah, I'm busy in Portugal. As you guys might know already stakepool is based in Brazil, and it's run by Michel and I'm here just to let you guys know how the Mumbai testnet is going with us. So during the past few months. Our team has been actively ment Testing ground to enhance the effectiveness of protocols before their deployment on the mainnet. This experience has been crucial in identifying challenges and optimizing our system. the latest update the bar V12 Tobias address specific concerns with a focus on storage efficiency. The implemented fixes that not only resolved excessive data growth, but also against storage efficiency and pruning mechanisms. At stake pool with conducted comprehensive tests to assess the updators updates performance using metrics that showed significant improvements in these aspects. We also want to report that the update was smoothly and efficiently executed With no issues recorded during the implementation process. Just to finish we would also like to point that we have been currently working and implementing kubernetes. within the Mumbai Network And we also put together some technical documentation that we would like to share with you now on the chat, please second.So yeah. we've developed that documentation. So if you guys essentially the validators that want to get to know about kubernetes and the way the implementation work. Any feedback on these documentation would be greatly appreciated. So you guys let us know if you have any questions or

**Harry Rook:** Thank you very much Andre. I appreciate it. That wraps up the agenda points. I realized we've got quite a bit of time remaining so If there are any other points that everyone wants to bring up then yeah, we've got some free time. So yeah, feel free to raise your hand and ask any questions or bring up any points.

**Tobias Geiger:** Hello greetings. Yeah. Thank you. one short question regarding EIP 4848. Is there a timeline or do you have any more info regarding these?

**Harry Rook:** I don't know who's best to answer this one Paul, perhaps or Sandeep.

**Paul O'Leary:** The current plan is to incorporate the Cancun changes, but we're not going to implement for it using it's interesting for four is interesting because it's a really good example of where the interests of l1s or ethereum mainnet and interests of LTS start to diverge. I don't think it makes nearly as much sense for an L2 a side chain basically to implement for it for four right as a David availability. So I actually go ahead and chime in Daniel. I definitely like to hear your opinion your thoughts.

**Daniel Gretzke:** Yeah, very good point there.Which is availability so for zkvm because it's a ZK roll up notability and the L1 is the data availability layer, and we don't post transaction data for POS on.For the POS Network on either so prototang charting is currently not very suitable to our infrastructure.But in the future it might very well become relevant, but there's no decision yet whether 4844 will be used or other data availability Solutions.

**Paul O'Leary:** Yeah, that's actually a good point of clarification. there's two ways that 4844 could be relevant at least for POS and they net one is that we could support it. And like I said what I'm saying is it doesn't really make sense for us to support it. And then I guess the other question do we use it for POS in other words, turn POS into more formal roll-up and there's no plans for that at the moment. It does have a big impact on Zke evm is a formal roll-up that has Daniel said uses aetherium the L1 for data availability. And so just all the other Roll-Ups in the world. We should benefit greatly on this epfm cost reduction from implementing for it for four and we will do that there but that's using 4844. It's not implementing for it.

**Tobias Geiger:** I understand. Thank you.

**Harry Rook:** Nice. Thanks to a question to us. Yeah, I never thoughts guys any other questions. On that note then we can wrap it up. Next ppgc is the 8th of February. Just want to get a quick. Take from you Sandeep it do you think we'll have ample time? To kind of fit that next ppgc in with the timelines around Napoli. So I'm thinking testnet dates. Yeah, do you think they'll align well with that day or do we need to consider moving the next call of to fit that testing schedule

**Sandeep Sreenath:** Yeah, I guess it's only the only decision that needs to be taken. Once of course, all the testing is done is when we want to roll out the hard Fork on Mumbai on the test net. So I'm not sure if we need a, separate call for that because I think you kind of agreed upon or we have a general consensus on all the changes that are being included there. so Yeah,I mean even if it happens before that. I think we should be good.

**Harry Rook:** Okay, Cool, and in any event, if anything changes we can send an update for an updated call move the next one around or something like that. So yeah that all sounds good. Okay. that's On the agenda. Everything's wrapped up. So thank you very much guys.


### Meeting ended after 00:22:54 👋
