## Polygon Protocol Governance Call (2023-10-19 16:03 GMT+1) - Transcript

### Attendees
Daniel Gretzke, David Silverman, Derek Meyer, Dimitri Nikolaros, Flavian Manea, George Serntedakis, Harry Rook, Jackson Lewis, Joonkyo Kim, Justice Conder, Marcello Ardizzone, Marcello Ardizzone's Presentation, Mariano Conti, Mateusz Rzeszowski, Mateusz Rzeszowski's Presentation, Michel Muniz, Mihailo Bjelic, Mike Brucken, Mirella Guglielmi, Panagiotis Alexiou (Peter Alexiou), Paul O'Leary, Scott Lilliston, Shivam Sharma, Shivam Sharma's Presentation, staking 4all, Tiago - Stakin, WebDev StakeWorks

# Transcript

**This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created.**

**Harry Rook:** Okay, Welcome everyone to PPGC number 10. In terms of the agenda for today, let me just share that in the chat. Main things we're going to cover are POL mainnet launch, some ideas around that, and then we'll follow this up by the latest PIP that dropped last night for the Polygon Protocol CouncilWhile you may have already tuned into the Twitter space, we'll provide more technical details on the PIP during this call. Then, we'll move on to the Agro hard fork, followed by some discussion on testnet migration. Finally, we'll wrap up with initial feedback from the Aalborg talk.
So in terms of whole mainnet scheduling, there is PIP 26, which is the transition from Mike's schedule. Dimitri. Derek, do you guys want to give an overview of the proposal?

**Dimitri Nikolaros:** So back in 2020, when Matic launched in May, then in June they set up this rewards pool schedule, which would last for five years. With this proposal, allow us validators and delegators to earn more rewards longer, right? So, as you can see, from the PIP, there's a little table with this is like the old school table, it would have ended in 2024 2025 that would be the last year. But this basically just, allows validators, keep earning every year an actual one percent going forward and it's a big W for to keep validators, incentivize and all that stuff. So that's the reason why Derek and  myself wanted this to go right. we need the rewards, we have costs and all that stuff. That's what it's for really

**Harry Rook:** Also. Derek, did you want to go? Anything you missed there or any other points?

**Derek Meyer:** I mean it's a very very simple proposal. Looking through the POL, whitepaper, we noticed that the issuance rate for validators and delegators became one percent which was lower than what everyone is currently receiving. And so the proposals just extend what we're currently receiving until that time's out or it's initial proposal and then transition to the new emission schedule. So, pretty simple all.

**Harry Rook:** Okay Any questions on PIP, 26? No. Okay, cool. Do we have Mr.Gretzke, on a call if so we can move on to

**David Silverman:** I can touch the setup for PIP 17?
So the technical, PolygonLabs did the testnet deployment. As we mentioned in the last PPGC, and has been testing it thoroughly on Goerli! Hey gretzke! If you want to jump in and take over, go for it.

**Daniel Gretzke:** I am. So, David mentioned, we've to deploy to grow early and also, we've updated the girly contracts to include that latest update. With the increased emission rate so far every test has been going well.
The new updates and also the deployment for Mainnet are going through Internal Security Review. And once that concludes, we're good to merge everything back into the main branch and we should be able to deploy on mainnet.

**David Silverman:** I would also add that there was a secondary development team, external to polygon labs that has done the deployment as well as on their own verification of the code. the last PPGC we had spoke about deploying on the 25th. I mean gretzke do you feel confident? I know you're discussing it with an external development team. Currently, they didn't find any issues? Do you feel comfortable living forward on the 25th of a technical perspective? without the PIP, 26 changes, which we'll get into kind of later?

**Daniel Gretzke:** I have a meeting later with the external development team where we will go and do a final walkthrough. Through the deployment. But I am confident that this should be no issue.

**David Silverman:** I guess for everyone from a community perspective are we all comfortable with first an employment on deployment which would include the full token, it will include the migration script so you can go forwards and backwards and POL and Matic and vice versa. It would instantiate the complete out thematic inflation schedule before switching to the 1% whole as specified in the 26th and then it would go ahead and also do the 1% to The Ecosystem Treasury basically all specifications that we have dust tested so far. So that is the full PIPs of 26 and 26 and 17. We are all comfortable with that deployment on the 25th as tested etc. Kind of thumbs up in the chat, I guess. Yeah. Any questions or concerns anyone wants to raise?
I guess you have bearing any, unforeseen last minute bugs coming in either through the report from a unifi or other sources, or if there's any other issues with any development team races, I think we're good to go ahead. Dimitri. Yeah.

**Dimitri Nikolaros:** Yeah, I just want to ask. So once this POL contract goes live, that's where something next week comes up with, the step Zero, really nothing really changes in terms of end user experience, there's the bridges. There's a lot of stuff to be done, This is just a really social step, right?

**David Silverman:** This is literally just a deployment. I think there will be so I just saw a question on the chat. Derek, asks, will you be any tool you are able to play with? We will have the contracts to be verified. You can go through that UI as well as several others. Polygon Labs will not be providing a UI for the migration, but we expect others to come up with some in the community in general. But again, this is not meant to be an end user change. This is mostly setting the stage for the other changes coming with 2.0, I think PIP 19 is on the agenda for later, which is the bridge upgrade and we can discuss that then.

**Tiago - Stakin:** Sorry for interrupting. You said, PolygonLabs won't come up with the UI for the token migration at any stage,â€¦

**David Silverman:** There will not be immigration.

**Tiago - Stakin:** even whenever people need to unstake, take all this kind of stuff.

**David Silverman:** As at that point, there will be a UI for that for a value or migration. But in terms of a simple Swap between Poland matic that is going to be sufficiently covered by anywhere from a decks aggregator, If you're going to go to one 1inch they're gonna pick the contract automatically. They already do for WETH other upgrade tokens. And so due to the plethora of UIs that are gonna be provided by the community. It is a very simple transfer between MATIC to POL or vice versa. There was no need to create a UI for that.
The contract address will be shared, very widely and yet, don't send tokens to the migrator contract, there will be full instructions etc. Again, the safest way, honestly, we would recommend is going to a major DEX or a major DEX aggregator and going through there or again interacting with the contracts directly yourself but a lot more FAQ is etc. That'll be we're gonna write alongside the community on the 25th. Back over to you Harry.

**Harry Rook:** Okay, So we're agreed on the 25th in terms of timelines, any updates. Yeah, we'll be sending out some form of novice around that. Okay, let's move on then to PIP 29 and the Polygon Protocol Council. So for those of you that jumps off the Twitter space and into this call, you'll know a little bit about this already but Mat, do you want to run through PIP 29 and kind of discuss some of the more technical details of the Council, how it's going to work, the different flows, etc.

**Mateusz Rzeszowski:** Absolutely. Thank you, Harry.
Okay, so this has been in the works on the governance side for quite a while now, and to provide a little bit of context for what the protocol console even is, and with polygon 2.0 around the corner and with the Paul Token upgrade and there is going to be a need for first of all and security in terms of critical issues, as well as the ability to move to an improved version under very specific circumstances.
And so those two needs we are proposing to answer with the Protocol Council, a 13 member body that will be jointly acting to execute changes on polygon infrastructure. And kind of a dual route approach using what we call a regular change route and an emergency change route, which I will get in a second baseline, is that, this is a group of representatives of the community with their main objective is just, being to perform those changes and those changes to be locked behind time locks before execution.
And this is also important to understand that this is the first step towards what we define as the final result of polygon 2.0 governance, which would be an armchain trust minimize and community-based framework where both the centralized but also efficient and secure decision making can happen. On to the specification.
This contract would be a gnosis safe, the ownership over the contracts that we define as system smart contracts in this context. And it would be the POL Migration contract as well as the Admission Manager contract that the Council governs. As I previously mentioned those contracts would be changeable by using one of those two routes. So the regular change route would require seven out of 13, consensus on the protocol with a 10 day time lock and that would initially be used for all configuration changes in the contract. And then an emergency change, route, requiring 10 out of 13, consensus with no time luck. That would be used to upgrade contract implementations in the proxy contracts.
When it comes to the proposed signers, I'm gonna quickly run through the list of people that we have proposed here so we have: Jordi Baylina (Polygon Labs), Viktor Bunin (Coinbase), Mariano Conti (independent), Justin Drake (Ethereum Foundation), Gauntlet, Mudit Gupta (Polygon Labs), L2Beat, Zaki Manian (Sommelier Finance), Anthony Sassano (The Daily Gwei), Liz Steininger (Least Authority), Jerome de Tychey (EthCC), Mehdi Zerouali (Sigma Prime), ZachXBT (independent). And on to the principles for why those initial members were selected.
First of all, we start off with what we consider. A broadly ecosystem reputation. Those members should be value aligned with ethereum the L2 ecosystem, as well as the wider wet free ethos. And, they should have historically proven themselves as engaged in committed members of those relevant communities. Secondly, we talk about the resilient nature of the Protocol Council, and so, we believe that the composition of the Council should ensure operational resilience, including by means of jurisdictional diversity, organizational, and diversity. And lastly identification diversity, for example, including public persons, anonymous individuals, as well as companies and this can be seen in the list itself. And then thirdly, we believe that no entity should hold white sway over the decision-making of the Protocol Council and that is, mainly expressed in the list of proposed, decisions, makers. And it also includes, the limitation of Polygon Labs, our presentation on the Council to two employees. Lastly, we have the technical and governance ability. So Protocol Council members should demonstrate a level of technical security and governance competence that is necessary for performing their duties and relevant to ensuring their acting in the community test Interest. Discount competence can be quantified by looking at members' past participation. What free governance frameworks, security councils and technical involvement in the L2 space. The protocol console will be able to add members via 7 out of 13, consensus with a 10 day time lock. And otherwise determine it's a very among the members and it would be governed by the PIP framework. So it is important to note that this is a first step towards polygon 2.0 governance and we have previously laid out several models that we are considering for the kind of final community. Check on such a body like the Protocol Council and you can read more about them but they're not necessarily relevant to What we are proposing to launch here to govern the tall token contracts moving on. We've also had several important principles for how we design the Protocol Council, so the principle that we need to optimize for both security and efficiency.
Was very important and close to heart when designing this system. That's why we want to introduce a dual route approach which covers the regular non-emergency changes to the contracts that would be facilitated by seven out of 14 consensus, to maximize efficiency and those types of changes would require a time, lock delay of 10 days until that the community has the ability to exit the system before any change takes place. At the same time, an emergency route kind of facilitates immediate changes to system smart contracts in case of a critical issue and here a time-lock mechanism would prove inefficient since it's unable to ensure that the issue remains contained and is addressed immediately without opportunities outside interference. Since, the time of transactions are public
So consequently, an emergency route for changing systems smart contracts is introduced here, requiring a very high 10 out of 13, consensus of the council to execute any change without a time lock. And then two considerations that we have listed here in terms of determining any potential attack lectures for the immediately. Executable changes were, first of all, what's the Tgo? That number of compromised actors necessary to perform malicious change in our case, that's 10. And then over the overall, that was the percent that actors necessary to perform any malicious change 77% in our case. So as you can see any immediately executable malicious change would require a large number 10 of hypothetically, compromised actors who at the same time make up the overwhelming majority 77% of the protocol set which leads us to the conclusion that a successful attack would be improbable. And when you combine this with the principles for member selection that we have listed above, you can also kind of reach that conclusion when looking at the Council set.
So, lastly, while in the initial implementation, those Paul contracts that I've mentioned previously, will be governed by either one of them. And, here, we've listed how that will happen. Exactly configuration changes in the contract seven out of 13 consensus with 10 day time lock upgrading contract implementations in the proxy contracts 10 out of 13 consensus with no time lock this would be then proposed in the future who to replace that mechanism of dual route execution, that will allow the regular change route to be the main execution route. With the emergency route being enabled for only a select number of system contracts.
Yes, so there is no backward Compatibility. And then security considerations. We've also listed them as the default, when it comes to polygon, I'm 2.0. Okay, thank you very much. If anyone has any questions or comments on this? I would like to give them space now.

**Harry Rook:** so Dimitri had a question in the chat, how we go into determine if an issue is urgent and therefore, require the higher consensus,

**Mateusz Rzeszowski:** Yeah, so maybe someone from the Contracts team can provide an answer here on how we can make that termination since we would be talking about configuration changes initially on the 7th third out of 13 consensus and then the contract implementation upgrades and proxy contracts. Yeah, maybe David, you can take this one.

**David Silverman:** Yeah, I can jump in. I think the emergency path is pretty much defined as right? There's a chance of loss of funds, this chance of infinite mint. when we're in a situation where there is a critical situation, that needs to be updated where we cannot comfortably reveal Through the long time. Block at risk of the code being exploited bias, kind of like revealing the solution. Actually, I think we have Paula O'Leary on the call here, is it? His description has been more engineering focused.

**Paul O'Leary:** Yeah, I think that's a good way to put it, a true emergency is something that could have an existential impact on the overall health of the ecosystem and is one that cannot safely. as you said, basically Be kind of picked to the ecosystem in advance of the fix. Basically, as part of the normal governance process, there's actually kind of another way to think about what the definition of this type of assistance of a situation would be is that you'd have to convince 10 to the 13 of the council. Basically that's necessary. So there's kind of a built-in check-in balance. Again, only intended to be used in an absolute emergency.

**Harry Rook:** Thank you, Paul. And David's. So we've got another question from Derek. Regarding the proposed signers should we also consider presentation, for various protocol actors? Developers, Cdk and validators. I don't have any thoughts on this one.

**Mateusz Rzeszowski:** So I can take this one. I think that when we think about the future of the framework and protocol governance, intersecting with what we call system, smart contracts, governance, there will be a lot of checks and balances that we will be seeing, I think that pushing towards social rough consensus of the technical core development community. And then that community working hand in hand with the Protocol Council to execute or to propose changes that can then in the latter stages of this governance framework, we also vetoed by the widest, layer of community. How can holders, and this is how we are thinking about this. So there's definitely opportunity for different groups to interact with one another when considering this particular group for the initial Protocol council, we took mainly into consideration those points that I've listed previously. And we think that this is a fairly exhaustive list, while we cannot guarantee that every group will be represented. We do have a fairly healthy mix. I would say of both individuals and then I hope that answers it.

**Harry Rook:** Thank you, Matt, Okay, I think we can move on from Pip29. So next on the agenda is the Agra hard folks. So I believe we have Marcello on the core Marcello. You want to do a quick overview of what we're considering for inclusion in the fork and some rough ideas around Timeline.

**Marcello Ardizzone:** Yes, thanks So, basically, peep 28 is all about the execution of the Agra at Fork, which is going to happen. Furthermore, the timeline is not yet 100% confirmed, but realistically we are targeting the end of October for Mumbai and the end of November for Mainnet. In the PIP, we can see, which are the changes included in the artwork. Basically, we have a reference to three other PIPs and foremost being created. Let me  go over 23 and 24. Then Shivam will go over 22, as one of the authors from that. So basically PIP 23 is about the activation of the ethereum Shanghai features as Shanghai was introduced on ethereum.  Which are these ones here and just we go through them quickly. If you have any questions, we will cover later on that. Basically the first one, warm coin base is to make the Coinbase address form, meaning that it will be part of the access addresses set and loaded at the stack of transaction execution together with the original address and the transaction recipient address, this will basically reduce the over price of accessing such address and pricing gas cost. The second one is a push instruction, and introduces a new opcode called push zero which pushes the conflict value onto the stack at two gas costs. this anyway is possible today with POS, but using push one with zero value, but it cost three gas runtime and encoded as bytes meaning, two times 200 cast deployment costs,
If you open this EIP, I mean there's a lot of details provided by the Fttm folks and a good research that has been done on Maynard. They figured out, basically, they're more than 11% of the pushing structure, we're using a zero value. And these new Hope, good will allow all these extraction to have 0 offset as input. And then the third one is limited meter in its code, which will basically limit the maximum side of any code and apply extra gas cost for every 32 bytes chunk of init code. Also in this case, if you look at it, there's a lot of deep dividing into the main drivers. We could say that basically the motivations are three. This ensures basically init code to be fairly charged with a cost that is, proportional to the unit's line and the system cost which is extendable in the future and also it simplifies the EVM engines by setting explicitly in it, as it is done with code size or offset and jumps up. Then we have the last one depreciate self-destruct, which is basically deprecating an existing code. In this case, it's not clear yet how this instruction will be changed. I mean, this is mentioning something will change here, but it's basically already. I'm going to a discussion and a meeting, but for the time being the warning has been placed into the documentation to discourage. It's usage.
And going back to our PIP here. That is one EIP compared to Shanghai hardfork side, which has not been included, which is 4895. This one enables validators to withdraw their stake either from the big on chain to the EVM. But this changes, it's not really work for the polygon PoS network, because we have no concept of what we can change. and I mean,  validators are now unable to withrow ether in polygon change the validators thinking is done on a theory. You might want it directly. And the operational advancing with poor chain by using M.layer. If you want to have a look at how this has been implemented, there are these two requests there. And of course, we will make some changes once the block heights for the forks. At the time, the one on Mumbai is already placed in the Genesis code.
With regards to PIP 24,  this has been extensively discussed right in the last governance call. So nothing much about it but from a merely technical perspective, I can give you an update on what has been done by the team. Basically, the recipient of the burnt contract, on the polygon metric needed to be changed. And with that cool in mind, we made some tests on developments and then push the changes to Mumbai by a New Testament channel, which basically changes the contract address starting from the Agra, and for Block itself. So this means that the old EIP 1559 contract within the function,  and burn its remaining magic that the new one to be burned will be sent after the artwork to the new recipient. Yeah, I guess that summarizes it . Any question or concern? Otherwise, I'll leave it to Shivam to explore the PIP.

**Shivam Sharma:** So PIP 20 revolves around the problem that we were currently facing with the developers. So the thing was that when a state thing happens, a person does a stating transaction on ethereum. And what happens basically, is that it gets to ethereum himself, picks it up and then both fetches starting from him, and then it So, now the thing is that more executes it as a system transaction. But if there is some bug in the receiver contract of the top, then it fails internally for that. For example, if I'm meeting states minting and NFT using stitching transactions, or something like that,so if I'm transferring an NFT. So if the receiver contract on the POS chain of that NFT is 40, then the transaction would fill, and this has sometimes resulted in depth, like some tabs, which were in development face to realize that there were some funds that got logged because their contract could not get those funds and that was because of some bug introduced in their contracts. So, to avoid this kind of situation, any further, we introduced a little bit more positive. So every time a state transaction is executed, or first of all, it will tell if the state saying was executed properly on the contract level and also, it will give out the state ID, which it corresponds to. So, since when we do states in transactions on ethereum, there could be multiple states in transactions that get batched and get executed on board. So it basically emits a lock for every session ID that gets executed with the success parameter as well. So this was all about PIP 20 and it revolves around giving a better UX to the top developers and avoiding situations such as Getting locked in the contract.

**Harry Rook:** Thank you very much, Shivam. Do we have any questions? Cool with that, then we can move on to PIP 19 which kind of links to PIP 24. David Silverman. Did you want to discuss a little bit around PIP 19?

**David Silverman:** So to clarify PIP, 19 is the upgrade to the plasma bridge. Such that will make it so that the native token of Polygon PoS  will switch from matic to POL. This is being done on the ethereum side. So there'll be zero changes on POS to any applications that said if you have a contract and ethereum that is expecting to receive a matic, from the plasma bridge. It's going to start receiving POL and so, check the implementation. I would also say that I think it's a PIP 25, which is the 1559 fix that's being proposed to be part of the Agra hard fork is a requirement before PIP 19 can go out as PIP 19 would break 1559 if we don't change it so kind there are a little intertwined and wanted to kind pull attention to that.

**Harry Rook:** Okay, that sounds good, any questions, I'll pick my team. So I mean to summarize. It sounds as though we're gonna have to wait for the Agro hard fork and then we can move further with that one. Currently the proposals are in the peer review stage. So as David said, Please check out the link and leave any feedback on the Awesome, no questions on that then we can go back to Marcello. Did you want to speak about the potential testnet migration and any thoughts around the

**Shivam Sharma:** So since we know that Goerliis being deprecated soon,, right? So since Goli serves as the root chain for our Mumbai testnet. So we were looking towards migrating the route chain towards Sepolia and after having some internal discussion we arrived at a conclusion that instead of migrating the testnet to serve the Sepolia route chain instead of that, we should spin up a new one, New Testament altogether. And so we have decided to spin up a new testnet. The testnet would be named Moi. Tested mi is a city in China and so yeah, also the good thing about it would be since if he would have migrated there would have been a lot of tokens which were bridged using ethics portal or state things and all that stuff. So the compatibility would have been broken and there could have been a lot of liquidity crisis On the existing Mumbai testnet and all that stuff. So instead of doing that, we are giving a fresh slate to the developers and although this is not going to be a very certain change that the Mumbai testnet stops and the more interested starts both the test nets would run together for some time. And so it gives people to, deploy, the ecosystem all together and the taps on whom they depend on and all that stuff. So once that ecosystem is up and we are good to go, I might test it would be the one to live. So yeah.

**Harry Rook:** So a slow, I guess. Deprecation of Mumbai. This sounds good. 

**David Silverman:** I see the same question, is there an estimated time when we were gonna hope to have Amoi for developer testing, but the one thing I would actually just propose is that we don't fully deprecate Mumbai , until after we've actually done our run through of the migration of stake.

**Paul O'Leary:** I would say, just expectation setting probably, midish next year to see the first kind of legs basically of new testnet and then a very gradual and very ecosystem driven kind of transition from one to the other basically. one's pulling the plug on Mumbai until everyone agrees. Basically, that it's ready to be sunsetted.

**Harry Rook:** Thank you David's and Shivam. Cool, with that. We can move on then to the final point for today, which is a discussion around some initial results and feedback from our book. I think we saw that finallity time was around 90 seconds and we were just waiting for some final RPC. Providers to implement the finalized API, don't know if there are any more updates on that one. Maybe that's best for Paul or Marcello.

**Marcello Ardizzone:** Yeah, yeah, we launched milestones later in the lab work Hard Fork. As you know, this provides parts of penalty for the post chain and that's been almost one week now for the artwork to be active on maintenance. So we're able to fight something significant later. Basically, we could observe that the median lens of a milestone is around 19 blocks and the median time for Mike's corn is approximately 41 seconds.So if we crunch a big numbers here, if we take that 41 seconds value to obtain a precise indicator about finality, we have to add two factors on top of this value, which are the handle delay and the more confirmation delay. First one is basically given by the fact that one milestone takes two handles. Blocks, the executed. So it's six seconds or block time. Two, plus the average mempool time, which keeps a total of 15 seconds. Plus the more confirmation delay which is calculated by the current more 16 blocks confirmation time since each block takes around 2 seconds we have a total of around 36 seconds. So this basically means that the POS network has a medium finality time of about 92 seconds at the moment which is great, those two. So the theme and there were some little issues reported that we're fixing the latest version and we are, of course, monitoring the behavior of the network going for when the rental improves its performance over the time.

**Harry Rook:** Thank you very much Marcello. Any feedback from those Anyone in the call validators.  Okay, question from Dimitri doing, do we know exactly why 44 validators missed a checkpoint a few days ago?

**Marcello Ardizzone:** That is currently being investigated internally, so I don't have, unfortunately, an update on that, but yeah, we'll come up with again, explanation going up for validators.

**Harry Rook:** Okay, So next PPGC is going to be in the second week of November. And hope to see you guys there. We'll have more updates on the Agra hardfork. And yeah, as well as that some more updates on the Protocol Council and the poll main launch as well. So yeah. Thank you guys for joining and I'll see you on the next call.

#### Meeting ended after 00:45:53 ðŸ‘‹
